Ecommerce connector (#406)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/guides/ecommerce-connection/step3-reconcile-PIM-data-with-eCommerce-data.md

## Main goal

> Congratulations! Now, you have a good overview of Akeneo PIM data, you need to reconcile PIM data and eCommerce solution data...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! Now, you have a good overview of Akeneo PIM data, you need to reconcile the PIM data and your eCommerce solution data.
```

> Next step, for each of PIM data, you need to ask yourself the following questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next step, for each piece of PIM data, you need to ask yourself the following questions:
```

* A UI or a “configuration file” to copy and paste Akeneo PIM API credentials (client id, secret, connection username and password).
* If you create a UI, add a “Test” button to test this connection (in order to check that everything is well configured on this side and maybe to start retrieving some interesting information about the Akeneo PIM that has just been connected)

> * Bonus: Akeneo API allows you to change the “limit” parameter. It could be useful to have this setting in your connector configuration to optimize the connection between Akeneo PIM and the eCommerce solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bonus: Akeneo API allows you to change the “limit” parameter. It could be useful to have this setting in your connector configuration to optimize the connection between the Akeneo PIM and your eCommerce solution.
```

Akeneo PIM manages different attribute types. Some eCommerce solutions may have limitations in terms of attribute types and the mapping between Akeneo PIM attribute types and eCommerce attribute types can sometimes be quite complex. Sometimes, you will have to make some difficult choices in terms of mapping.

> For some attribute types, the choice can be multiple...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some attribute types, there are several choices.
```

>  (e.g. Measurement Attribute: keep only the value in the number attribute type or the value plus the unit in a text attribute?).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 e.g. For a given measurement attribute: should you keep only the value in the number attribute type or the value plus the unit in a text attribute?
```

Some eCommerce solutions offer the same capabilities as Akeneo PIM for localizable attributes management. Depending on the eCommerce solution, the mapping is sometimes straightforward and automatic but sometimes it requires implementing a connector configuration to map locales manually.

> Don't forget that you can have localizable attributes on PIM products, assets and reference entities data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget that you can have localizable attributes on PIM products, assets and reference entities type of data.
```

With Akeneo PIM, it is possible to define scopable attributes (attribute content differs, depending on the channel).

Compared to e-commerce features, one channel can be used:

* To define the eCommerce solution itself (this means that all attributes have the same value for the eCommerce solution... even if it has several eCommerce sites). For example, if a customer has products for a mobile application, for a paper catalog and for an eCommerce solution, he will define a "Mobile" channel, a "Print" channel and an "eCommerce" channel.

* To define each eCommerce website (this means that attributes can have different content related to each eCommerce website).
Please read “Manage multiple eCommerce website” below for more information.

**What do you need to implement?**

You could develop a specific configuration in your connector to specify which channel you will take into account when retrieving data from Akeneo PIM.

> Don't forget that you can have scopable attributes on PIM products, assets and reference entities data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget that you can have scopable attributes on PIM products, assets and reference entities type of data.
```

:::

::: warning

> For “media file” attribute, PIM API exposes a URL. As Akeneo PIM is not a CDN, this URL is **NOT a public URL** and can’t be used directly by your eCommerce solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For “media file” attributes, the PIM API generates a URL. As Akeneo PIM is not a CDN, this URL is **NOT a public URL** and can’t be used directly by your eCommerce solution.
```

The “simple” filter will include filters most used by your customers and the “advanced” filter will allow more complex configurations (based on our [PIM API filter capabilities](/documentation/filter.html)).

> Bonus: to have the most advanced system, you could implement a specific configuration for each website of your eCommerce solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bonus: to have the most advanced system, you can implement a specific configuration for each website of your eCommerce solution.
```

> This method can bring some benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method comes with some benefits:
```

> * Ability to have a large flexibility in term of configuration for each website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ability to have a large flexibility in terms of configuration for each website.
```

* Ability of your connector to manage websites independently.

> * Ability to manage multiple PIM for the same eCommerce solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ability to manage multiple PIMs for the same eCommerce solution.
```

A product is rarely removed. It is more often “disabled” to keep its history (In Akeneo PIM but in eCommerce solution too).

**What do you need to implement?**

Please consider relying only on the enable/disable status of the PIM product to know if a product can be activated or deactivated in your eCommerce solution.

> Consider also that, sometimes, a PIM doesn't work alone (e.g. if an ERP imports its data directly into the eCommerce solution).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider also that, sometimes, a PIM doesn't work alone (e.g. if an ERP imports its data directly into the eCommerce solution).  
```

> Consider also that, sometimes, a PIM doesn't work alone (e.g. if an ERP imports its data directly into the eCommerce solution).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, remember that, sometimes, a PIM isn't the only source of product data (e.g. if an ERP imports its data directly into the eCommerce solution).  
```

Reviewer: add link

> In that case, you need to consider a configuration to set if the product needs to be activated (because your connector is the last one to import product data) or stay deactivated (because the ERP connector is the last one to import product data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, you need to consider setting up a specific configuration if the product needs to be activated (in the event your connector is the last one to import product data) or stay deactivated (when the ERP connector is the last one to import product data).
```

But also "custom" product association types for other needs.

**What do you need to implement?**

Well, again, it depends on your customers needs.

> If your customers don't manage associations directly in the eCommerce solution and want to manage it manually in the PIM, you can create a specific configuration in your connector to identify which PIM association type is a “Cross-sell”, “Up-sell”, “Substitution” or “Pack” association type to be able to map these associations in your eCommerce solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your customers don't manage associations directly in the eCommerce solution and want to manage them manually in the PIM, you can create a specific configuration in your connector. It will allow you to identify which PIM association type is a “Cross-sell”, “Up-sell”, “Substitution” or “Pack” association type to be able to map these associations in your eCommerce solution.
```

But also "custom" product association types for other needs.

**What do you need to implement?**

Well, again, it depends on your customers needs.

> If your customers don't manage associations directly in the eCommerce solution and want to manage it manually in the PIM,   
> you should create a specific configuration in your connector to identify which PIM association type is a “Cross-sell”, “Up-sell”, “Substitution” or “Pack” association type to be able to map these associations in your eCommerce solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your customers don't manage associations directly in the eCommerce solution and want to manage it manually in the PIM, you should create a specific configuration in your connector to identify which PIM association type is a “Cross-sell”, “Up-sell”, “Substitution” or “Pack” association type to be able to map these associations in your eCommerce solution.
```

> Also don't forget our new Serenity feature that add [quantity on PIM associations](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/updates/2020-07.html#new-association-type-with-quantities).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, don't forget our new Serenity feature that adds [quantities on PIM associations](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/updates/2020-07.html#new-association-type-with-quantities).
```

**What do you need to implement?**

Well, it depends on your eCommerce solution.  

> Some eCommerces can manage automatically categories on products.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some solutions can manage categories on products automatically.  
```

**What do you need to implement?**

> Well it depends on your eCommerce solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well it depends on your eCommerce solution.  
```

> Some eCommerces can manage automatically categories on products.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some eCommerces can manage automatically categories on products.  
```

In that specific case, you don't have to map PIM categories with eCommerce ones.

> If, on the other hand, you think it's interesting to map PIM categories to eCommerce categories, you need to give some flexibility to your users to choose which category trees are going to do what in eCommerce solution…

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If, on the other hand, you think it's interesting to map PIM categories to eCommerce categories, you need to give some flexibility to your users to choose which category trees are going to do what in the eCommerce solution…
```
